# Challenge Exercises

Now you've had an opportunity to get started using GitHub Copilot, we have a number of challenges for you to attempt. Remember the goal here is not to test your programming abilities but rather, see how you can use GitHub Copilot to help you complete these tasks. Even if you're not a developer, you may be surprised how Copilot can help you be successful with these challenge.


<details>
<summary>Challenge #1 - Adding Unit Tests</summary>

### Adding Unit Tests

1. Press ```CTRL + ` ``` to open the terminal window in VS Code if it is not already open.

2. Enter ```npm test``` in the terminal window and press **ENTER** to execute the existing unit tests for the Calculator application.

3. Scroll up in the terminal window to see what tests have been executed. You should see tests for Arithmetic validation, Addition, Multiplication and Division. There are no tests for the subtraction function!

4. Open the ```/test/arithmetic.test.js``` file.

5. Scroll down to the line with the comment ```TODO: Challenge #1``` (Around line 96)

6. On the line following the comment, add a new comment to provide context to GitHub Copilot on what you want assistance to do. Try adding this comment ```// add tests for subtraction``` and press ```ENTER``` to generate a suggestion.

7. Accept the suggested line if it looks right by pressing ```TAB``` then ```ENTER```.

8. Continue accepting suggestions line by line to see how many unit tests you can have Copiloit assist you in writing.

9. Once you're happy with a few unit tests, save the file and return to the terminal window. Enter ```npm test``` and press **ENTER** to execute the unit tests again.

**NOTE:** The advanced features currently available in GitHub CopilotX Chat, provide far more sophisticated assistance in writing unit tests, including the ability to write complete test suites for you. At the time of creating this exercise, Copilot Chat was only available as a pre-release experiment.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Challenge #2 - Adding Unit Tests for the power/exponential function</summary>

### Adding Unit Tests for the power/exponential function

1. See if you can now add additional unit tests for the power/exponential function you created in the core exercise.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Challenge #3 - Adding a new function</summary>

### Adding a new function

1. See if you can now add an entirely new function (e.g. modulus function: x = a % b ) to the calculator using commands in comments ("// write the XYZ operation"). The previous exercises will help you locate where you want to add code. 

2. Once your function is working, consider adding the necessary unit tests to confirm it's functionality by using GitHub Copilot Chat.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Challenge #4 - Using build in Github Copilot Inline Chat commands starting with "/"</summary>

### Additional features

1. Go to client.js file and mark the the whole function `calculate`. Open Github Copilot Inline Chat and ask to explain the function. You will see the explanation of the function in the chat window.

2. Go to client.js file and mark the the whole function `calculate`. Open Github Copilot Inline Chat and ask to simplify the function. You will see the suggestion of the function change in the chat window. Accept the suggestion and see the function change in the editor.

3. Go to client.js file. Remove third parameter of the function `calculate`. Put cursor inside the function. Open Github Copilot Inline Chat and ask to fix the function. You will see the suggestion of the function change in the chat window. Accept the suggestion and see the function change in the editor.
4. 
5. Go to client.js file. Put cursor on the first line of the function `calculate` definition. Open Github Copilot Inline Chat and ask to document the function. You will see the suggestion of the function change in the chat window. Accept the suggestion and see the function change in the editor.

</details>


#### What's next?

Once you've completed the challenges, you may like to review the [additional resources](<./4. additional resources.md>)
